Run a command to see all the processes running on the server owned by everyone.
ps

Confirm the username you are running as.
logname 

Run a command to see all the processes running on the server and use grep to select only the processes your user is running.
ps -ef | grep "Nick"

Repeat the previous exercise. This time, select every process except things running as you.
ps -ef | grep -wv "Nick"

Show the process info for our current session without using a grep command.
ps f$$

Show the process tree for the current session.
pstree

Run a process check on the server but only output the User, pid and cmd columns to your results.
ps -el pid,cmd,user

Run a process check to pull all of the process ids running on the server and put the output into a file named list in your home directory.
touch list
ps -ef pid > list

Run the following series of commands:
sleep 300 &

Find this command by checking the processes and running a grep
ps -ef | grep "561"

Stop the process using the process id
kill 561

Run a command to see a dynamic view of all the processes running on your host.
top

Now run the same command but specifically only for root.
top -u "root"

Experiment with the following commands while running top and note your observations:
z
c
Shift P
k

Run a command to check network connectivity between your Linux session and yahoo.com.
ping yahoo.com

show the network route between your session and yahoo.com and output the contents into a file named yahoo.route in your home directory.
traceroute yahoo.com > yahoo.route

View the file using less and see how many hops it took to get there.
less yahoo.route
22

Create a soft link named route to your network route.
ln -s route ./yahoo.com

Run a command to see all the network sockets on your server and output to a file named output in your home directory.
touch output
netstat -a  > output

Create a folder named network in your home directory.
cd
mkdir network

Move your route file and network output file into the network folder you just created.
mv yahoo.route ./network/
mv output ./network/

Run the command to query your network interfaces on your session.
ipconfig

Run the following command to put your results in the directory the trainer specified.
History > name.YYMMDD.module6
